URL: https://www.lynx.com/embedded-systems-learning-center/delivering-the-modular-open-systems-approach

LYNX MOSA.ic | Delivering the Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)

Products

LYNX MOSAic

LYNX MOSAic for Avionics

LynxElement

LynxOS-178

LynxSecure

LYNX MOSA.ic.SCA

SpyKer Product Family

VIE

Legacy

LynxOS

LynxSafe

Professional Services

Support

Support Portal

Support Services

Training

Industries

Armored Ground Vehicles

Commercial Avionics

Critical Infrastructure

LEO Satellites

Military Avionics

Urban Air Mobility

Industry Standards

FACE 

MOSA

Resources

Case Studies

Export Compliance

FAQ

Resource Center 

Videos

About Us

Careers

Contact

How Did We Do?

Distributors

Events

Blogs

Lynx Executive Blog

Lynx Technical Blog

Our Business Model

Our Commitment to National Defense

Partners

Press Releases

The Lab

Feedback

Delivering 
MOSA

How Lynx MOSA.ic™ helps realize the modular open systems approach

LYNX MOSA.ic is a software development framework for rapidly building comprehensible software systems out of independent application modules and delivering the vision of the Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA).

By giving developers deeper insight and increased control over how applications are realized onto modern CPUs, LYNX MOSA.ic introduces a new perspective to application development that simplifies the creation, certification, and maintenance of inherently complex software systems.

This article describes in detail how  LYNX MOSA.ic specifically delivers on the objectives of MOSA, namely: 

Enhancing competition

Facilitating technology refresh

Incorporating innovation

Enabling cost savings

Improving interoperability

Download White Paper

Open Architecture

"The objective of the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DoD) Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA) is to design systems with highly cohesive, loosely coupled, and severable modules that can be competitively sourced from independent suppliers. As a software development framework for rapidly building comprehensible software systems out of independent application modules, LYNX MOSA.ic is designed specifically to deliver on the open architecture vision of MOSA.

In traditional platform architectures, applications are compiled against APIs provided by an operating system (OS) and run as processes on the OS. The means by which multiple applications are realized onto the CPU are abstracted away by the OS. LYNX MOSA.ic provides a Modular Development Framework that gives system integrators and platform suppliers precise control over how applications are realized onto the CPU. Unlike OSs, LYNX MOSA.ic provides system integrators clear understanding of the capabilities of their CPU and visibility of its capacity as software loads are added to it..."

Copyright © 2023 Lynx Software Technologies

Privacy Policy