URL: https://www.lynx.com/products/lynxsecure-separation-kernel-hypervisor/freertos-support

FreeRTOS Support for LynxSecure 

Products

LYNX MOSAic

LYNX MOSAic for Avionics

LynxElement

LynxOS-178

LynxSecure

LYNX MOSA.ic.SCA

SpyKer Product Family

VIE

Legacy

LynxOS

LynxSafe

Professional Services

Support

Support Portal

Support Services

Training

Industries

Armored Ground Vehicles

Commercial Avionics

Critical Infrastructure

LEO Satellites

Military Avionics

Urban Air Mobility

Industry Standards

FACE 

MOSA

Resources

Case Studies

Export Compliance

FAQ

Resource Center 

Videos

About Us

Careers

Contact

How Did We Do?

Distributors

Events

Blogs

Lynx Executive Blog

Lynx Technical Blog

Our Business Model

Our Commitment to National Defense

Partners

Press Releases

The Lab

Feedback

Embracing Open Source Software

-
Free
RTOS™ Support for Arm-v8 architecture-

"The inclusion of FreeRTOS as a guest of the LynxSecure separation kernel hypervisor will give developers an easy and low-cost path to development and integration of complex systems, with a path to a fully safety-certifiable solution."

Richard Barry 

Founder of FreeRTOS

Moving with the market

Lynx 
real-time operating systems
 have been proven and deployed at scale across a wide range of security- and safety-critical applications, especially in aerospace and defense markets. Over the years, we have witnessed increased adoption of open source OSes in embedded systems designs and have decided to embrace a broader set OSes to work out-of-the-box with our secure hypervisor product, 
LynxSecure
, and our complete development and integration framework, 
LYNX MOSA.ic™
.

Therefore, to deliver further on our commitment to the Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA) and to accommodate a wider range of customer choices, we announced in February 2020 that we are embracing 
FreeRTOS
 as a supported guest OS.

Why

FREERTOS?

Our own research as well as 
3rd party research indicates
 that the most popular OSes used in embedded systems are (1) Linux; (2) in-house/custom OSes; and (3) FreeRTOS. Lynx loves 
Linux
 and already offers Buildroot in LYNX MOSA.ic™. We also support a number of 3rd party OSes (and will even support competitor OSes) while of course offering our own RTOSes where suitable, but FreeRTOS was noticeably absent.

As the #2/#3 OS of choice currently and as the OS planned for fully a third of upcoming embedded projects, adding FreeRTOS support was a clear choice as we continue to deliver on the vision of MOSA by providing customers with open source solutions within a secure and safe development framework.

Finally, FreeRTOS truly embodies what we think a Guest OS in Lynx technologies should be:

It’s modular

It provides a path to safety certification

Thanks to the investment by Amazon, there are now a broad set of hooks to assist with cloud connectivity which will shorten customer development cycles and costs

Ask the Expert 

FreeRTOS support 

Lynx Director of Product Management, Dave Beal, discusses FreeRTOS guest OS support in LynxSecure with VP Marketing Ian Ferguson.

Watch video

First Steps

Supporting FREERTOS

XILINX Zynq

Based on customer demand, we are starting this engineering work around the Arm architecture, focusing more specifically on the Xilinx Zynq product family. We will be making this available in the summer of 2020.

Email us
 to be kept up-to-date with progress on this engineering effort. Alternatively, you can start immediately with your code development for 
Zynq
, which is available to run on LynxSecure once the port is complete.

Questions? Contact Us

Copyright © 2023 Lynx Software Technologies

Privacy Policy