URL: https://www.lynx.com/lynx-mosaic-selected-for-general-atomics-grey-eagle-uas

LYNX MOSA.ic™ Selected for General Atomics Grey Eagle UAS

Products

LYNX MOSAic

LYNX MOSAic for Avionics

LynxElement

LynxOS-178

LynxSecure

LYNX MOSA.ic.SCA

SpyKer Product Family

VIE

Legacy

LynxOS

LynxSafe

Professional Services

Support

Support Portal

Support Services

Training

Industries

Armored Ground Vehicles

Commercial Avionics

Critical Infrastructure

LEO Satellites

Military Avionics

Urban Air Mobility

Industry Standards

FACE 

MOSA

Resources

Case Studies

Export Compliance

FAQ

Resource Center 

Videos

About Us

Careers

Contact

How Did We Do?

Distributors

Events

Blogs

Lynx Executive Blog

Lynx Technical Blog

Our Business Model

Our Commitment to National Defense

Partners

Press Releases

The Lab

Feedback

LYNX MOSA.IC

Selected for General Atomics Gray Eagle Extended Range UAS

The

Announcement Details

LYNX MOSA.ic supports Gray Eagle modernization

The GE-ER is a multi-mission UAS including surveillance and other intelligence gathering. The air vehicle carries sensors including color and thermographic cameras, and is piloted remotely from a ground-control station via satellite data link or optionally by line-of-sight data link. An early goal of the software modernization sought to integrate a new and advanced video codec implemented on the Zynq UltraScale+ adaptable multiprocessor system on chip (MPSoC) from Xilinx, Inc. The modularity of LYNX MOSA.ic enabled the team to achieve an efficient and robust solution in a mixed criticality environment including both Linux and a deterministic real-time operating system. LYNX MOSA.ic securely partitions networking, security, safety and multimedia domains from each other with prescriptive, defined and immutable allocation of hardware resources to each. This allowed the incorporation of the Xilinx hardware without compromising hardware dependencies or the performance and determinism of other time-critical processes. Although DO-178 certification isn’t an immediate requirement for the system, GA-ASI views the fact that Lynx provides a proven DO-178 certified OS with a path to DAL-A support as a significant advantage.

Why

LYNX MOSA.ic?

Secure. Safe. Adaptable. 

LYNX MOSA.ic was found to meet General Atomics' software-modernization targets for the Grey Eagle Extended Range (GE-ER) unmanned aerial system (UAS) program, which includes safety and cost efficiency, as well as the introduction of new features, increasing system robustness, and securing future flexibility. 

Supporting today’s computing trends moving towards multicore processors and hardware acceleration leveraging complex programmable SoCs, LYNX MOSA.ic enables real-time operating systems (RTOS), commercial OSes, and bare-metal software to coexist on the same platform and maintain robust separation. The platform’s open integration framework promotes safe software re-use to help realize cost efficiencies and shorten development and integration cycles. With unique features to optimize hardware on boot-up and securely lock-down the configuration to prevent unintentional modification or malicious interference, LYNX MOSA.ic ensures operational safety and robustness and provides state-of-the-art cybersecurity.

What is LYNX MOSA.ic?

LYNX MOSA.ic is a framework for development and integration of complex multi-core safety or security systems. Built on the LynxSecure separation kernel hypervisor, LYNX MOSA.ic supports a variety of operating systems such as LynxOS-178, Linux, Windows, third-party RTOS and bare metal applications including Lynx Simple Applications. LYNX MOSA.ic runs on Intel
®
, Arm
®
 and PowerPC
®
 architectures. Industry-specific bundles for LYNX MOSA.ic are available for Avionics, Industrial, and UAV & Satellite applications. 

What is

LYNX MOSA.ic for UAVs?

PRODUCT OVERVIEW

LYNX MOSA.ic for UAVs and Satellites is a set of Lynx software packages, 3
rd

party technologies, and associated tools which Lynx has proven to reliably work together for rapidly building robust unmanned aerial and satellite systems. Specifically, LYNX MOSA.ic for UAVs and Satellites includes the following: 

LynxOS-178
®

(Safety RTOS)

Buildroot

(Linux)

LynxSecure

(Separation kernel)

Lynx Simple Applications (bare-metal apps)

LSA.store

Tools

Questions? Contact Us

Copyright © 2023 Lynx Software Technologies

Privacy Policy